
**A thread is a single sequence stream within a process.** 
( When we say that a thread is a single sequence stream within a process, it means that the thread follows a linear, ordered series of instructions or steps, executed one after the other. )

Threads are sometimes referred to as lightweight processes because they share many of the same resources as the parent process but are independently schedulable units.

Each thread belongs to exactly one process. In an operating system that supports multithreading, the process can consist of many threads. But **threads can be effective only if the CPU is more than 1** otherwise two threads have to context switch for that single CPU.

#### Why Do We Need Threads?
- Threads run in parallel improving the application performance. Each such thread has its own CPU state and stack, but they share the address space of the process and the environment.
- Like the processes, threads also have states like ready, executing, blocked, etc.
- Priority can be assigned to the threads just like the process, and the highest priority thread is scheduled first.


#### Components of Threads

These are the basic components of the Operating System.
- Stack Space
- Register Set
- [Program Counter](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-program-counter/)


#### Types of Thread in Operating System

Threads are of two types. These are described below.
- User Level Thread 
- Kernel Level Thread

[for more](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/thread-in-operating-system/?ref=lbp#:~:text=Types%20of%20Thread%20in%20Operating%20System)


### Creation of threads
In C++, you can create and manage threads using the C++11 `<thread>` library. Here is an example that demonstrates how to create and use threads in C++:

```
#include <iostream>
#include <thread>

using namespace std;

// Function to be executed by the first thread
void printMessage1() {
    cout << "Hello from thread 1!" << endl;
}

// Function to be executed by the second thread
void printMessage2() {
    cout << "Hello from thread 2!" << endl;
}

int main() {
    // Create two threads that run printMessage1 and printMessage2 respectively
    thread t1(printMessage1);
    thread t2(printMessage2);

    // Wait for both threads to finish execution
    t1.join();
    t2.join();

    cout << "Hello from the main thread!" << endl;

    return 0;
}

```