
### What is Memory?
Computer memory can be defined as **a collection of some data represented in the binary format**.

On the basis of various functions, memory can be classified into various categories. We will discuss each one of them later in detail. [[]]

A computer device that is capable to store any information or data temporally or permanently, is called storage device.

 [[Storage of data in a computer system | How Data is being stored in a computer system?]]


### Need for Multi programming

However, The CPU can directly access the [[Main Memory | main memory]], Registers and cache of the system. The program always executes in main memory. The size of main memory affects degree of Multi programming to most of the extant. If the size of the main memory is larger than CPU can load more processes in the main memory at the same time and therefore will increase degree of Multi programming as well as CPU utilization.

 Let's consider,   
 Process Size = 4 MB  
 Main memory size = 4 MB   
 The process can only reside in the main memory at any time.   
 If the time for which the process does IO is P,   

 Then,   
 CPU utilization = (1-P)   
 let's say,   
 P = 70%   
 CPU utilization = 30 %   
 Now, increase the memory size, Let's say it is 8 MB.   
 Process Size = 4 MB   
 Two processes can reside in the main memory at the same time.   
 Let's say the time for which, one process does its IO is P,
 
 Then, 
 CPU utilization = (1-P^2)   
 let's say P = 70 %   
 CPU utilization = (1-0.49) =0.51 = 51 %

Therefore, we can state that the CPU utilization will be increased if the memory size gets increased.