
### What is Memory?
Computer memory can be defined as **a collection of some data represented in the binary format**.

On the basis of various functions, memory can be classified into various categories. We will discuss each one of them later in detail. [[]]

**Storage Device**: A **computer device that is capable to store any information or data** temporally or permanently, is called storage device.

 [[Storage of data in a computer system | How Data is being stored in a computer system?]]

### What is Memory Management?

Memory management is a **function of the operating system that controls how the computer's memory is allocated and used by different programs**. It **ensures that each program gets enough memory to run**, prevents programs from interfering with each other, and makes the best use of the available memory to keep the system running efficiently. Its **primary goal is to optimize performance by managing the limited memory resources effectively** while supporting multiple programs at the same time.
In a multiprogramming computer, the Operating System resides in a part of memory, and the rest is used by multiple processes.



### Need for Multi programming

However, The CPU can directly access the [[Main Memory | main memory]], Registers and cache of the system. The **program always executes in main memory**. The **size of main memory affects degree of Multi programming** to most of the extent. **If the size of the main memory is larger then CPU can load more processes in the main memory at the same time** and therefore will increase degree of Multi programming as well as CPU utilization.

 Let's consider,   
 Process Size = 4 MB  
 Main memory size = 4 MB   
 The process can only reside in the main memory at any time.   
 
 If the time for which the process does IO is P,   
 Then,   
 CPU utilization = (1-P)   
 let's say, P = 70%   
 CPU utilization = 30 %   
 Now, increase the memory size, Let's say it is 8 MB.   
 Process Size = 4 MB   
 Two processes can reside in the main memory at the same time.   
 Let's say the time for which, one process does its IO is P,
 
 Then, 
 CPU utilization = (1-P^2)   
 let's say P = 70 %   
 CPU utilization = (1-0.49) = 0.51 = 51 %

Therefore, we can state that the CPU utilization will be increased if the memory size gets increased.