
In lock variable mechanism, Sometimes Process reads the old value of lock variable and enters the critical section. Due to this reason, more than one process might get into critical section.

 [[02. Lock Variable | Lock Variable]] mechanism provides mutual exclusion to some extent but it doesn't make sure that the mutual exclusion will always be there. There is a possibility of having more than one process in the critical section.

What if the process gets preempted just after executing the first instruction of the code written in [[02. Lock Variable | Lock Variable]] section i.e. " While (lock! = 0); " ? In that case, it will carry the old value of lock variable with it and it will enter into the critical section regardless of knowing the current value of lock variable. This may make the two processes present in the critical section at the same time.

To get rid of this problem, we have to make sure that the preemption must not take place just after loading the previous value of lock variable and before setting it to 1. The problem can be solved if we can be able to merge the first two instructions.

###### Working
Here, the **shared variable is lock which is initialized to false**. TestAndSet algorithm works in this way – **TestAndSet always returns whatever value is sent to it** and **sets lock to true**. The **first process will enter the critical section at once** as TestAndSet will return false and it’ll break out of the while loop. The **other processes cannot enter now as lock is set to true** and so the while loop continues to be true. **Once the first process gets out of the critical section, lock is changed to false**.


**Test and Set Pseudocode –**
```
//Shared variable lock initialized to false
boolean lock;

boolean TestAndSet (boolean &target){
    boolean rv = target;
    target = true;
    return rv;
}

while(1){
    while (TestAndSet(lock));
    **critical section**
    lock = false;
    **remainder section**
}
```



###### Examination of TSL on the basis of the four conditions.

- **Mutual Exclusion**
Mutual Exclusion is **guaranteed** in TSL mechanism since a process can never be preempted just before setting the lock variable. Only one process can see the lock variable as 0 at a particular time and that's why, the mutual exclusion is guaranteed.

- **Progress**
According to the definition of the progress, a process which doesn't want to enter in the critical section should not stop other processes to get into it. In TSL mechanism, a process will execute the TSL instruction only when it wants to get into the critical section. The value of the lock will always be 0 if no process doesn't want to enter into the critical section hence the progress is always **guaranteed** in TSL.

- **Bounded Waiting**
Bounded Waiting is **not guaranteed** in TSL. Some process might not get a chance for so long. We cannot predict for a process that it will definitely get a chance to enter in critical section after a certain time.

- **Architectural Neutrality**
TSL **doesn't provide Architectural Neutrality**. It depends on the hardware platform. The TSL instruction is provided by the operating system. Some platforms might not provide that. Hence it is not Architectural natural.